and again these sessions will be
recorded and
we have plenty to go on this afternoon
but without further ado
i will be kicking it over to nori to get
us started
great thank you caitlin great to see
everybody today
thank you for joining the session i'm a
big fan of slaster so always fun
when i have the opportunity to be part
of a a saster event
um and just kudos to caitlin and team
for great programming so far today
everything's really been great so today
i'm going to talk
about the role of marketing in
fundraising and growth of a software
company
so i think folks often think about
marketing and think about
the sort of natural role marketing plays
in driving revenue growth
and the alignment with sales but not
everyone's thinking about
the role marketing can play as a company
is scaling and trying to attract revenue
so
whatever stage you're at whether you're
early stage
you know with an angel investment maybe
you're you've done an a or b
round or you're contemplating an ipo i
hope that there'll be some
some things you can apply uh from my
talk today
so very quickly before i jump in here
just a a
quick background on me so i'm with
bandwidth
bandwidth is a communication software
company
we're based in raleigh north carolina
the company has been around for 20 years
now
if you're familiar with twilio we're in
the same category as twilio
so companies come to us to add voice or
messaging services
into an application or to build an
application around that
we were bootstrapped for the first 17
years of the company
and in 2017 we took the company public
on nasdaq so before bandwidth
i was with four other tech companies
across several different industries
e-commerce
cloud computing um wireless
infrastructure
and mobile software and across the
companies that i was with the five
companies four of them ipo'd
three ended up selling and of those
three
two sold after they ipo'd and then there
was lots of rounds of
fundraising both vc and private equity
fundraising along the way
a lot of rounds of strategic m a
so today i'm going to talk to you about
the approach that i've taken
at all the different companies i was a
part of over the years and
the role marketing had particularly
around fundraising and
and the way we played a strategic role
in that and really helped to steer the
company
and get the outcomes that we wanted so i
boiled it down really into
two main areas that i think you can
apply to your business so the first
is connect your business to a growing
market
so you want to make sure that as you're
working on your messaging and
positioning
you clearly show how your business is
connected to a growing market
so we all know investors want to see all
the up and to the right
charts that show all this great growth
so you want to go out and
look at the category that you're in
figure out how you fit into that
category
what's your unique differentiator within
that within that market
what are the macro dynamics that are
impacting the overall market
you want to pull all of that together
you obviously want to bring in
forecast data that shows how big the
market is growing
but you want more than just the data you
want to be able to
tell a story and connect your business
to trends that are happening
in the industry and and in the broader
world around us
you have to remember you know the
investors you're dealing with they're
people
and you want them to get excited about
the growth potential for your business
so the more you're able to really show
hey we're part of this industry
here's where it's growing too and these
are the trends that are impacting that
that industry
and if they're trends that that person
can connect with and easily understand
it's going to be a lot easier
for you to sell that positioning in that
story the other big part of this
is if you're entering or if you're in a
market that's a crowded market
let's say let's say you're in like the
email marketing software category it's a
pretty crowded market
or marketing automation it's okay if
you're entering a crowded market
you just want to be able to show what
your differentiated position is
within that market you can show that hey
here's the whole pie
for email marketing and here's where
it's growing to and the trends that are
impacting things
and here's my slice of the pie you don't
have to show that your addressable
market is
that entire email marketing space you
just want to show that you have a meaty
enough slice
that's going to be interesting and big
big enough for your company
so that's the first big piece then once
you've once you've connected yourself to
that growing market you've shown that
there's clear product market fit
the next piece is the messaging and
really bringing the message to life
so this is an area where i think a lot
of companies
fall down and they fall down
because i think so often the temptation
is to use all this jargon and to sound
really smart and to sound really clever
with your headlines and with your copy
and with your boilerplate
and what ends up happening is it's
really hard to understand
and the key thing here is i think in
everything you do
within your business you've got to keep
it simple
you have to remember that you're talking
to people
whether it's an invest a potential
investor whether
it's a research analyst a report a tech
reporter
a potential employee potential customer
whoever it is you kind of think okay
this is an analyst from gartner
or this is a you know silicon valley vc
who's invested in a lot of software
companies
they're going to understand this i need
to be at their level and and speak tech
talk to them
you don't you really don't because too
often what happens is they don't
understand
the nuance of your business they don't
understand all of that jargon so
what i like to do is just break it down
into very
very simple basic terms so it may not
sound super sexy
and really clever as a headline but it's
really clear
so i'll give you a couple examples from
bandwidth
so we were years ago
we we had we did a website refresh and
we had this big hero image
cool image behind it and the line on the
hero was
a more connected world built here
more connected world built here so what
does that mean
that could be anything that could mean
anything it wasn't specific at all it
was so broad so pie in the sky
the image looked really cool but it said
nothing about what we do
and so we changed and iterated many
times over the years and now we have
something super clear super simple
on our site on our homepage but people
understand what we do
so clarity has got to trump everything
that's that's the super important part
the next important piece is when you're
describing your company
don't be afraid to describe your company
relative to competitors
so when when i first mentioned bandwidth
in this talk
i mentioned that we're in the same
category as twilio
most folks at saster know who twilio is
twilio's done a fantastic job of
building a great brand
within the business they're great
they've got a great business we're in
the same
category there's a bunch of differences
between the companies but if i'm giving
you that high level pitch
and i say bandwidth is communication
software you know twilio we're similar
to twilio
you instantly are grounded and know okay
i understand high level what they do
because i've compared it
i think too often companies are
reluctant
to do that because they want to carve
out this brand new category
and they don't want to compare
themselves to anybody else and and
i encourage you to make it easy on your
listener
whether your listener is an investor or
whether they're a potential employee
whoever it is
make it easy on them the other piece
that i like to do with bandwidth
is i like to try and break down
what we do into relatable examples
so i'll say yeah you know bama
communication software company
you're likely using bandwidth every day
where you live work and play
and i'll give a couple examples you dial
into a zoom call
on this zoom call right now you're using
bandwidth if you dialed into that call
using phone number
you book a pet setter using the
rover.com app that's bandwidth for
messaging service
you got a reminder about your dentist
appointment tomorrow that's coming from
bandwidth
so i give examples to try and bring it
to life for folks
and this is particularly important with
the investor audience because
as you as you try you know in the first
slide we talked about
connecting to a large growing market and
when you really bring that to life for
someone
in relatable terms now all of a sudden
they're walking out and going about
their day
and they're looking around and thinking
that's another bandwidth use case that's
another bandwidth use case holy cow
bandwidth could get into they power
teams they could get in and power this
platform as well
so now all of a sudden they start
thinking about all the different ways
they can use your business so
breaking it down into those really basic
relatable terms
is really important for that reason and
the other piece
is you know i look at every person
that i talk to as a potential evangelist
for my brand and i've always done this
with any company i've ever been with
and it's people whether i'm talking to a
reporter or someone in my booth at a
trade show
or even someone i meet around town at a
concert and
they say they see a bandwidth t-shirt
and say oh hey tell me about bandwidth
i use it as an opportunity to talk about
what we're doing at bandwidth and use
those relatable examples and then i'll
maybe throw in a little bit about the
culture or some other unique elements
but
i'm looking at every person as this is a
possible
evangelist a potential brand evangelist
for me
i want them fired up i want them excited
about my brand and i want them to then
go on
when they go to the next booth or they
go to the next conference or
it's a reporter and they're in their
next meeting or they're back talking to
to their
coworkers they're saying man i'm at this
really cool company today
bandwidth and here's what they do so as
you're thinking about getting your
message out building your brand
remember that every encounter is someone
that's a potential brand evangelist that
could
help you whether their future customer
future investor future employee
so now that you've you've got your
message nailed
you've connected to a growing market and
and you're thinking about how do i
now get out and tell the story of of the
company i can't just rely on these brand
evangelists
i need to get out there and tell the
story and raise my visibility among
those potential investors
so if you have a limited budget
if you have a limited budget you really
want to take a surgical approach
to reaching your stakeholders and the
reason i say that is you know you can
get out with these mass tactics they
tend to be expensive
the market's noisy there's so much out
there that you're competing with it can
be really hard to get noticed
so what i've done in the past that's
worked really well is particularly
around fundraising
so you know when you're when you're in
that phase of talking to vc firms or
private equity firms or maybe you're
talking to investment banks about
about strategic mma or ipo
they will usually share with you some
reports research reports from different
analyst firms
um if you're not at that stage where
they're sharing reports with you
you can go to their blog and they're
typically in their blog
they're quoting different research
analysts and different sources
um a lot of them on the vc side a lot of
them are quoting faster and retweeting
saster
pay attention to what they're writing
about pay attention to what they're
retweeting
understand what what's in their sphere
of influence like
who's influencing them and then you want
to go
and target those outlets so if the vc
firm that you want to get
in front of pays a lot of attention
disaster you want to make sure you're
alignment faster and that you're getting
visibility through faster
if the investment bank
reads everything that idc publishes you
want to make sure you're briefing idc
you may want to become a client of idc
so that you get more time with them
so they fully understand your story and
where you fit within the industry
you want to look at you know as you're
trying to position the company
oftentimes it makes a lot of sense to
commission some commission a research
piece about your category or about where
you fit within the category
you want to bring in those analysts and
third parties that
that your targets are paying attention
to so
so this is a really big one um and then
just working with analysts in general
this is big this is um particularly if
you don't have a big budget if you don't
have a big budget so you can't go out
and
spend a lot of money on ads um taking
40k
and getting into an early you know
relationship with a research analyst
firm
whether it's one of the big guys or
there's some really great small nichey
boutique firms that specialize in
certain categories of software
it's really worth it to invest in that
early on
they can help you to craft your message
they can absolutely i mean
so many of these analyst firms have a
direct line
into the investors and
whether it's vc private equity
absolutely investment banks when you
read the investment bank reports you'll
see
so many things quoted from these
research analysts um
so it's really it's a really important
part of the mix
if you are looking to raise money you
want to make sure that that group
understands who you are and then seeking
third party validation you know doing
things like
going after awards um making sure you're
getting speaking ops at the right places
that your audience is paying attention
to that's that's going to be important
as well
the other piece of building a brand and
raising awareness is is just remembering
that
your brand is so much more than your
website and
today in this world it's influenced by
so many other things you know it's all
the
g2 crowd cap tara truss radius gartner
peer reviews
um it's all of those third-party review
sites today
it's social media it's glassdoor you
know if if you're you've invited
you're you're in conversations with the
vc firm and you're telling a story about
you know just the great potential for
your business and the great culture that
you have and they go check out glassdoor
and they see on glassdoor that your
employees are really unhappy
and they're revealing information about
how disorganized and unaligned your
business is
it's not going to help you so you want
to make sure that you
really pay attention to all of this as
well and you want to make sure you pay
attention to your employees
your employees are such an important
part of your brand
and you can have the strongest marketing
department and the strongest
brand presence but if the minute one of
your employees gets on the phone maybe
it's somebody
you know in accounting or collections or
it's an account manager or whoever it is
they get on the phone with one of your
customers or one of your prospects and
and they're not exuding that right brand
energy and personality it's it's really
gonna it's really gonna impact your
[Music]
brand
you